updated nowDocker notes

Virtualisation - it is a technique of spitting a physical resource into as many as we want. Eg cpu , memory.
 Or 
Virtualisation is a technology that transform hardware into software.

It is basically the integration of resources

It can create multiple servers and can perform multiple tasks on the same machine
 Advantages of vm
- Provides high availability
- Reduce costs
- Fault tolerance
- Reduces capex and open

Types of hypervisor 
- Base mental hypervisor
It runs directly on the system hardware. Vm ware ESXI is a type 1 hypervisor that runs on the host server hardware without an underlying OS
- Hosted hypervisor
It runs within the conventional OS environment

Intro - docker is a tool which creates virtual machine

How to create a container 
- Docker run -it ubuntu /bin/bash
How to track the changes in the container
- Docker diff saifahmed 
How to create the image of the container
- Docker commit new container updateimage 
Docker images
- To see the existing images.
How to create container with the image
- Docker run -it - -name saifahmed updateimage /bin/bash 
Ls 
Cd tmp/
Myfile 

Dockerfile - docker file is basically a text file. It contains same set of instructions
FROM - for base image this command must be on top of the docker file
RUN - To execute commands. It will create a layer in image
MAINTAINER - author / owner /description
COPY - copy files from local system (docker VM) 
ADD - similar to copy but, it provides a feature to download files from internet, also we extract file at docker image side.
EXPOSE - To expose ports such as port 8080 for tomcat, port 80 for nginx etc
WORKDIR - To set working directory for a container 
CMD - Execute commands but during container creation
ENTRYPOINT -  similar to CMD but has higher priority over CMD, first command will be executed by ENTRYPOINT only.
ENV - Environment variables

Dockerfile
1 - create file named Dockerfile
2- add instructions in Dockerfile
3 - build docker file to create image
4 - rum image to create container
Vi Dockerfile
FROM ubuntu
RUN echo “technical  guftagu” >/tmp/testfile

To create image out of docker file
Docker build -t myimg .
Docker ps -a
Docker images

